ADT

Apple Disk Transfer
Created by Paul Guertin (pg@sff.net)
1995 ...

ref: ADT_2006.zip


What is "ADT"?

     ADT (Apple Disk Transfer) lets you transfer 5.25" 16-sector disks from
your Apple II to your PC. It will also transfer standard 5.25" .dsk disk image
files from the PC to a formatted 5.25" diskette on the Apple II. The connection
is a fairly simple NULL modem link between serial ports using standard cables
and adaptors.

     Transferred disks can be DOS 3.3, ProDOS, Pascal, ... . However, ADT will
not correctly transfer most copy protected disks to the PC.

     ADT is a pair of dedicated telecom transfer programs-- one for Apple II
running under DOS 3.3 and one for the other computer (almost always a PC; but,
there is also a version for Mac).  Usually, the Apple II program is named "ADT"
on the DOS 3.3 disk. The PC program is named "adt.exe" (Windows version) or
"adtdos.exe" (MS-DOS version).

     There are several versions of the Apple II-side program to fit different
models and serial interfaces. The program (e.g. adt.dmp) is a block of code
designed to be dumped from PC to an Apple II running DOS 3.3 via a simple
Text transfer to the monitor which requires no special software on the Apple II.

     Once both sides are installed, ADT transfer speed typically ranges from
9600 baud through 115,200 baud.

     It was thought that 115,200 baud was not possible, but it is. This was
shown by Ed Eastman's patched ssc version (v1.23) and Knut Roll-Lund's updated
winADT (v1.23) and dosADT (v1.23). To do the dir command correctly buffering
had to be added for the 115,200 baudrate (v1.24).


The 2006 Distribution

This distribution is a rework of the 2005 distribution. Updates include
a consolidated SSC and IIgs ADT client, replacing the previously separate
versions.

ADT_2006 includes both the Windows and MS-DOS programs for the PC side
(unchanged from the 2005 distributions) as well as the two most popular 
Apple II-side programs:

PC side 

o- Windows32 version of PC-side program is adt.exe.
   (by Sean Gugler)
   (now at version 1.23)

o- MS-DOS version of PC-side program is now adtdos.exe.
   (by Paul Guertin; ADT creator)
   (now at version 1.23)

Apple II side 

o- ADT- This is the original ADT (now at version 1.31). It is
intended for use on an Apple II equipped with Apple's Super Serial
Card (SSC) or a compatible card, or the IIgs.
ref: ADT folder
dump file to transfer: adt.dmp

o- ADTcc- This is an adaptation of ADT (now at version 1.21) intended
for use on an Apple II equipped with the Apple Communications Card
and other, generally older, non-SSC cards.
ref: ADTcc folder
dump file to transfer: ADTcc.dmp


Directions for setting up and use of each Apple II side program are
included in a readme.txt file in the program folder.

Other information sources:

o- Apple II FAQs
   http://home.swbell.net/rubywand/Csa2T1TCOM.html
   ftp://ground.ecn.uiowa.edu/apple2/Faqs/Formatted/Csa2T1TCOM.txt
o- Apple IIc .dsk Archive
   http://www.chez.com/apple1/Apple2cDskArchive/tech/Transfert.htm
o- Manual.txt file in this folder




More about the new Windows32 PC Interface for ADT

Apple Disk Transfer Win32 Edition
Copyright (C) December 1, 2000 by Sean Gugler
Updated November, 2005 by Knut Roll-Lund with more baudrates

Released as freeware under GPL -- see GPL.TXT for details.


Tired of supporting old 8-bit technology with old 16-bit technology?
Enjoy at last the thrill of 32-bit technology, with the introduction
of ADTW!  This Win32 port of the beloved Apple Disk Transfer utility
brings us at last to the modern.

Apple Disk Transfer sends, via serial cable, the full contents of
a disk from an Apple to an image file on a PC, and vice versa.

If you've never used any previous versions of ADT, please see the
readme.txt file in the folder for the Apple II-side program you plan
to use. Also check the information included in the Manual.txt file
in the main folder (i.e. this folder). 


ADTW replaces only the DOS application, the Apple II-side program is
unchanged.  Improvements are:

  + You can task-switch to another app, even minimize ADT,
       while it continues working in the background.

  + Supports long file names and lowercase characters, even on
       the Apple side (if you have //e or greater).

  + Aborted .DSK files (when ESC is pressed) are properly closed and
       their file handles released (no more sharing violation errors).

  + Aborted .DSK files are padded with 00 instead of random bytes.

  + Don't have to hold down any PC keys during "receive" operation.
       (The author found that ADT for DOS running under Windows 95 would
       freeze unless he was holding down some key, even "shift")

  + Tested under Windows 95, but should theoretically work on all
       32-bit Windows versions (NT, 98, 2000, ME, ...)

Alas, changing directories is still unsupported, you should have any files
you wish to transfer from the PC in the main ADT folder. Though plenty of
enhancements are in the works, including ProDos-order images and nybble
images, full source code is provided for the impatient.



Installing and Using ADT Win32 Edition

  On the Apple II, you can use your old Apple-side ADT program, if
you have one installed. If you do not have one installed, pick one
that fits your setup-- e.g. ADTssc, ADTcc, or ADTgs-- and transfer it.

  Install and run the PC-side program the same way you did for the DOS
  edition:

+ Copy all files into their own directory. (You can uninstall by 
       deleting the entire directory.)

+ Double-click adt.exe or run it from a Command Prompt.


+ The files MFC40.DLL and MSVCRT40.DLL are required for the Win32
Edition of ADT.  These files are bundled with Windows NT 4.0,
Windows 98, and later versions.

Windows 95 owners might see error messages mentioning these files,
if they haven't been installed by any of the myriad other applications
that also require them.  Technically, you should obtain them from
me, and though I can supply them by email I would greatly appreciate
it if you'd look for them on the web first.  There are plenty of sources,
though legally I can't recommend any specific one.  Try searching Google:
http://www.google.com/search?query=mfc40.dll%20msvcrt40.dll%20download

Once obtained, copy both files into your C:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM folder.
It should not be necessary to restart Windows.

+ About box is found through the system menu (icon on top left).

+ To use command-line parameters, consider using a Windows Shortcut
       instead of a batch file (.BAT).  See Windows Help (Start Menu,
       "Help" item) under the topic "shortcuts" to learn how to do this.



ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
----------------
Thanks to Rich Williamson for the original SENDDISK,
Paul Guertin for filling it out into ADT,
and Paul Schlyter for supporting other serial cards.
See also the section marked "HISTORY" in ADT.TXT.

Special thanks to all these people for releasing their source
code so their work could be built upon in perpetuity.

Thanks to all the folks who contributed and maintain the
comp.sys.apple2 Usenet newsgroups and its FAQs, without
whom I'd still be deep in the dark.


LICENSE
-------
The Win32 edition of this program is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General
Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA
or visit the web at  http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html



- Sean Gugler, 07-Dec-2000

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Legal notice: Windows 95, Win32, and other Windows references are
generally understood to be trademarks of Microsoft, Inc.



